Are you hurting me or am I hurting you?
Relationships with individuals organized
at the borderline level often involve a
game of hot potato concerning who is the
bad
object. Bad feelings are projected onto
others, denied or acted out via
disorienting and sometimes frighteningly
intense interpersonal conflicts. The
self may also come under assault by
harsh or critical introjects which are
internalized aspects of abusive or
inflexible caregivers that can lead to
depressive symptoms, unforgiving
self-criticism, self harm, or even
suicide.
Borderline organization is characterized
by conflicts around identity, control,
and autonomy.